Newsletters: add 299 (2024-04-24) (#1618)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2024-04-24-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #299'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2024/04/24/
name: 2024-04-24-newsletter
slug: 2024-04-24-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

- **Weak blocks proof-of-concept implementation:** Greg Sanders
  [posted][sanders weak] to Delving Bitcoin about using _weak blocks_ to
  improve [compact block relay][topic compact block relay], particularly
  in the presence of divergent policies for transaction relay and mining.
  A weak block is a block with insufficient proof-of-work (PoW) to
  become the next block on the blockchain but which otherwise has a
  valid structure and set of valid transactions.  Miners produce weak

>   blocks in proportion to those weak block's percentage of the required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  blocks in proportion to those weak blocks' percentage of the required
```

  PoW; for example, miners will produce (on average) 9 weak blocks at
  10% of the required PoW for every full-PoW block they produce.

  Miners don't know when they'll produce a weak block.  Each block
  candidate they attempt has an equal chance of achieving full-PoW, with
  some of those candidates ending up becoming weak blocks instead.  The only
  way to create a weak block is by doing exactly the same work necessary
  to produce a full-PoW block, meaning a weak block accurately reflects
  the transactions a miner was attempting to mine at the time the weak
  block was created.  For example, the only way to include an invalid
  transaction in a weak block is by risking creating a full-PoW block
  with the same invalid transaction---an invalid block that full nodes
  would reject and which would prevent the miner from receiving any
  block reward.  Of course, a miner who didn't want to advertise what
  transactions they were attempting to mine could simply refuse to
  broadcast their weak blocks.

  The high difficulty of creating a 10% weak block and the high cost of

>   creating a weak block with invalid transactions makes weak blocks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  creating a weak block with invalid transactions make weak blocks
```

  10% weak blocks would increase the bandwidth nodes used for block
  relay by up to 10x.  However, many years ago Bitcoin Core began using
  compact block relay that substitutes the transactions in blocks with
  short identifiers, allowing the receiving node to only request any
  transactions it hasn't previously seen.  This typically reduces the
  bandwidth required to relay a block by over 99%.  Sanders notes
  that this would work just as well for weak blocks.

  For full-PoW blocks, compact block relay not only saves bandwidth but
  it helps new blocks propagate much faster.  The less data (fewer full
  transactions) you need to send, the faster the remaining data can be
  sent.  Faster propagation of new blocks is important for mining
  decentralization: a miner who finds a new block can begin working on a
  successor block immediately, but other miners can only begin working
  on a successor after they receive the new block through relay.  This
  can give an advantage to large mining pools, creating an unintentional
  type of selfish mining attack (see [Newsletter #244][news244 selfish]).
  This problem was common before compact block relay was introduced and

>   it led to both centralization of mining into large pools and the use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  it led to both the centralization of mining into large pools and the use
```

>   of problematic techniques, such as the spy-mining that lead to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  of problematic techniques, such as the spy-mining that led to the
```

- [Are replacement transactions larger in size than their predecessors and than non-RBF transactions?]({{bse}}122473)
  Vojtěch Strnad notes that [RBF][topic rbf]-signaling transactions are the same
  size as non-signaling transactions and gives scenarios of when replacement
  transactions could be either the same size, larger, or smaller than the
  original transaction being replaced.

- [Are Bitcoin signatures still vulnerable to nonce reuse?]({{bse}}122621)
  Pieter Wuille confirms that both the ECDSA and [schnorr][topic schnorr
  signatures] signature schemes, including their [multisignature
  variants][topic multisignature], are vulnerable to [nonce reuse][taproot nonces].

- [How do miners manually add transactions to a block template?]({{bse}}122725)
  Ava Chow outlines different approaches that a miner could use to include
  transactions in a block that wouldn't otherwise be included in Bitcoin Core's
  `getblocktemplate`:

  - use `sendrawtransaction` to include the transaction in the miner's mempool
    and then adjust the transaction's [perceived absolute
    fee][prioritisetransaction fee_delta] using `prioritisetransaction`

>   - use a modified `getblocktemplate` implementation or totally separate block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - use a modified `getblocktemplate` implementation or separate block
```

>   - use a modified `getblocktemplate` implementation or totally separate block
>     building software

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - use a modified `getblocktemplate` implementation or totally separate block-building
     software
```

  Miners don't know when they'll produce a weak block.  Each block
  candidate they attempt has an equal chance of achieving full-PoW, with
  some of those candidates ending up becoming weak blocks instead.  The only
  way to create a weak block is by doing exactly the same work necessary
  to produce a full-PoW block, meaning a weak block accurately reflects
  the transactions a miner was attempting to mine at the time the weak
  block was created.  For example, the only way to include an invalid
  transaction in a weak block is by risking creating a full-PoW block
  with the same invalid transaction---an invalid block that full nodes
  would reject and which would prevent the miner from receiving any
  block reward.  Of course, a miner who didn't want to advertise what
  transactions they were attempting to mine could simply refuse to
  broadcast their weak blocks.

  The high difficulty of creating a 10% weak block and the high cost of
  creating a weak block with invalid transactions make weak blocks
  strongly resistant to denial-of-service attacks that might attempt to
  waste large amounts of node bandwidth, CPU, and memory.

>   Because a weak block is just a regular block with slightly insufficient
>   PoW, they're the same size as regular blocks.  When relaying weak

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Because weak blocks are just regular blocks with slightly insufficient
  PoW, they have the same size as regular blocks.  When relaying weak
```

Reviewer 3: Given we are late in the publication process, going to leave as is for now

projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [LND v0.17.5-beta][] is a maintenance release that makes LND
  compatible with Bitcoin Core 27.x.

    As [reported][lnd #8571] to the LND developers, older versions of
    LND depended on an older version of [btcd][] that intended to set
    its maximum feerate to 10 million sat/Kb (equivalent to 0.1 BTC/Kb).
    However, Bitcoin Core accepts feerates in BTC/kvB, so the maximum
    feerate was actually being set to 10 million BTC/kvB.  Bitcoin Core
    27.0 included a [PR][bitcoin core #29434] that limited maximum
    feerates to 1 BTC/kvB in order to prevent certain problems and under
    the assumption that anyone setting a higher value was likely making
    a mistake (if they really wanted a higher maximum value, they could
    simply set the parameter to 0 to disable the check).  In this case,
    LND (via btcd) was indeed making a mistake, but the modification to
    Bitcoin Core prevented LND from being able to send onchain
    transactions, which can be dangerous for an LN node that sometimes
    needs to send time-sensitive transactions.  This maintenance release

>     correctly sets the maximum value to 0.1 BTC/kvb, making LND

Reviewer 2: The size units seem to be a bit inconsistent in this paragraph: Kb, kvB, kvb.
